[Music]
in the morning time you have to give
yourself abundant when you are going out
don't go out without giving a button and
attention should be all the time inside
in the sense that walking on the road
people have habit of seeing they sing
that sing like that the attention gets
written away what you should do is to
see about three feet or 4 feet at the
most on the ground and not about because
you guys you are the beautiful children
flowers everything there's nothing very
beautiful about that so better is to see
only up 3-4 feet if possible to fix your
attention so the attention becomes
concentrated and you feel very relaxed
and relieved of too much of wobbling of
your eyes attention you see your
attention get spoiled that when you put
attention say I put attention onto this
glass then I start thinking about this
glass that always a beautiful glass so
now this is a very beautifully done one
now somehow or other I should manage to
steal it
then attention when attention moves
further how can I manage to steal this
what should I do
what is the best way of stealing it and
all those things so that tension gauge
DC into problems and problems because I
have got for disagreed I develop how I
developed because I see supposing I put
my attention to it and then a thought
starts from there coming to me a
reaction as as such this gives you a
reaction then you start seeing a
beautiful Ganesha there then you say oh
I have never seen one like this like
that the thought starts to see coming
from all this and that thought comes
into my mind and gives me ideas that I
should do something like that
to steal the glass all right now the
pure attention would be that I just
watch this without thinking anywhere
that your attention goes and you start
sort of getting involved into it or
getting attached to it you should try to
just watch it without thinking go into
thoughtless order then you enjoyed the
most now say for example these carpets
are very nice one thing would be if they
belong to me I would be worried how to
insure them these people are sitting
that should be spoiled is that all these
thoughts will come into mind
supposing these belong to you then I'll
think how to manage to take them with me
somehow
and how to suggest in a very clever way
some things that I can manage to take
them away now that is that is quite
human then one can do that way but
beyond that all flow earnest and cunning
best is to appreciate how by just
looking at it without any thought artist
has created it he has put all his joy
into it I'm just enjoying the joy just
looking at it so when you start enjoying
the joy your attention will become pure
very pure because the enjoyment of it is
makes you a very sort of dedicated
person about it because you feel that
what is in this world after all it's to
enjoy then if I have to enjoy everything
that why should I worry about getting it
to myself or stealing it or doing all
these tricks better is to try so the
reward of it is so great that attention
starts purifying yourself minimum of
minimum first the attention has to be
pure but pure attention doesn't mean
harshness
it doesn't mean asceticism
it doesn't mean disciplining your eyes
like a blinkers of horse but in all
freedom your attention to be
concentrated where do we pay our
attention the most if we are honest we
can think on human level we pay our
attention to our children
to our wife our husbands to our family
the relationships which are with love so
when your attention has got the
compassion and the love for another
person then only you can work out the
realization of others if you have to
work out the realization of others it
has to be an intense love for another
person if you don't have that intensity
you are just moving your hands raising
the Kundalini because your mother has
given you powers and finished off that
intensity of love can only give you
success with your pure attention and I
think the pure attention can only love
impure attention cannot love because all
impurity is self oriented I orient it
they are not self in the sense spiritual
oriented
[Music]
what should not lose your attention
which is towards God Almighty if that is
lost you are lost there's a very nice
poem namadeva has written about that
there was a boy who was flying a kite
and the kite was floating and this boy
was looking after the kite and while he
was talking to everybody else but his
attention was on the culture then it
goes further he says that a lady is
having the little child on her body on
the waist and she is cleaning the house
she is cleaning with a little broom she
has to move from here to there and after
that cleaning she has to do other work
also but the child is here so her
attention is on the child that she
should not fall down something should
not happen though she is doing all kinds
of work everything her attention is on
the child in the same way your attention
should be on your divine power of
Kundalini this third one he is described
that there are many ladies who are
taking water from a river sometimes they
have three pictures on their heads and
walk and while they are walking they are
talking to each other telling stories
about each other anything but their
attention was on the pictures which are
on their head in the same way whatever
we are doing our attention should be on
our Kundalini we should find out what
are we do as it is we have the light but
you must take light into every corner of
your life every aspect of your thinking
every kind of an effort to me
and you'll be amazed if you really watch
your attention she will really know what
you are doing is the attention to be
watched so much that ultimately you'll
be surprised that the attention is no
more frittering either without the
attention you cannot work out and the
subject of sahaja yoga requires a
maximum maximum penetration because
sahaja yoga if you have understood I
don't know if you have understood or you
are aware of it or not
but is learned through experience and
through nothing else you have to
experience and then believe into it it
is not that what I told you is a
conditioning on your mind nothing you
experience it to yourself anger but
those who have that penetrating
intelligence who have that penetrating
love emotions and those have that
penetrating movement of their
understanding they are the one who
experience learn experience learn
experience learn so this penetration
starts by your meditation and
sustainance of the meditation and
Samadhi
seed sprouting manifesting the new
dimension
this sort of an attention one has to
develop by watching the attention
chipton
you had experiences of things working
out you have had experiences of many of
miracles happening before your eyes but
still the attention has not settled down
with those experiences still guitar
nawaz means the old experiences continue
old identifications continue still
continue with that and the filth of that
is still on your being change everything
become a fresh new person you are
blooming out as a flower and then as a
tree and as you your position assume
your position as they sahaja yogi so
this attention must be brought round you
judge yourself where is your attention
and what is the point of understanding
what is the measure of understanding
it's very simple I have to be pleased
because I am getting
if I am pleased then you have got the
job but I cannot be pleased by mundane
things by any arguments with that but
only by your assent